Dear Professor Timmerman, Mr. Fayyad-Kazan,

This mail contains my fourth bi-weekly situation report for the OSSEC mini-project.

1. What did I do.

18/12/2013 (2h)
1. Read about how to install MySQL and how to configure master-slave replication.
2. Read about DRBD installation and configuration.
3. apt-get update/upgrade all my virtual machines
4. Create a new virtual machine: haproxy

19/12/2013 (10h)
1. Install and configure HAProxy.
2. Test the HAProxy setup (also test failover).
3. Record a movie while testing the HAProxy setup.
4. Write down all the steps to configure and install HAProxy in my report.
5. Formulate conclusions and remarks on the HAProxy experiment.
6. Install MySQL and create a small testing database.
7. Configure a Master/Slave setup.
8. Test the Master/Slave setup.
9. Record a video of this setup.
10. Write down all installation and configuration steps on MySQL in my report.
11. Formulate conclusions and remarks on the MySQL experiment.
12. Add disk to the 'node1' and 'node2' virtual machines.
13. Install NTP tools on the 'node1' and 'node2' virtual machines.
14. Install DRBD.
15. Configure DRBD.

In total I spend 12 hours.
I did not finish the DRBD experiment, but I already have gotten quite far, so I hope to finish this quickly in my next session.

2. What will I do in the next period.
I plan to spend 22 hours in the next 2 weeks.
- I will finish my DRBD experiment.
- I will start setting up an instance of the Ceph distributed file system (over 2 different virtual machines)
- I will implement a MySQL shard.

3. Problems.
More a remark than a problem: in my HAProxy installation I used the round-robin algorithm in stead of the least-conn algorithm as I mentioned before, since I discovered that the last is more suited for HTTP (and other protocols with relatively short session times).
The installation of MySQL replication was quite involved and I had to consult quite some documentation sources; in the end I got this working without too many problems.

4. Open issues.
At this moment there are no open issues.

5. Assistance
At this moment no assistance is required.

6. Other urgent matters
None.

Kind regards,

Pieter Libin
Working student "Master in Applied Informatics"