Dear Professor Timmerman, Mr. Fayyad-Kazan,

This mail contains my second bi-weekly situation report for the OSSEC mini-project.

1. What did I do.

14/11/2013 (6h)
1. Identify the different solutions to: make incremental database backups, make file system snapshots and to make incremental file system backups
2. Read about RDBMS database sharding, identify that this is possible for MySQL and Postgres. Read how this can be setup for MySQL.
3. Read about NoSQL, read how it can be useful to improve scalability. Identify some interesting solutions (MongoDB, CouchBase).
4. Read about distributed file systems, read about the possibilities, advantages, transparency towards the end user. Read about Ceph, GlusterFS: differences, benchmarks.
5. Install a base version of Ubuntu Server. Read how to configure the network so all cluster nodes can contact each other. 

18/11/2013 (9h)
1. Configure an emulated NAT in VirtualBox, so all cluster nodes can contact each other, without the need to be connected to a real network.
2. Create 3 virtual machines: 'monitor', 'node1', 'node2' by cloning the base virtual machine and configure them (hostname, timezone, …).
3. Install the Nagios server software on 'monitor'.
4. Install the NRPE daemon on the nodes ('node1','node2')
5. Test the setup, fix some problems.
6. Configure to do a CPU load test on 'node1', fix some problems.
7. Write a C++ program to test the ratio CPU usage/number of processed transactions.
8. Write a init.d script to start/stop the aforementioned C++ program in a deamonised way.
9. Test the program, do some fixes.

19/11/2013 (2h)
1. Write out the different steps I did on 18/11 (add screenshots, source code, config file sections).
2. Learn how to add screenshots in Latex and how to reference them.
3. Test the check_load service.
4. Read which threshold values are useful for checking the CPU load.
4. Write a backup script to backup my virtual machine "lab" properly.

2. What will I do in the next period.
I plan to spend between 10-12 hours in the next 2 weeks.
I will continue with Nagios (to make it discover system failure), I will also try to make Nagios restart a crashed node and start a new node when a node is under heavy load.
I will try to install Ganglia to monitor CPU usage over a long time.
I will install HAProxy and make it distribute its connection over 2 nodes (based on the least-conn configuration).

In total I spend 17 hours (as I estimated in my previous SITREP).

3. Problems.
It took me quite some time to properly configure Nagios, there we some things missing in the documentation. There was also a problem to run a check on a remote node (using NRPE), after some reading I was also able to fix this problem.

4. Open issues.
At this moment there are no open issues.

5. Assistance
At this moment no assistance is required.

6. Other urgent matters
None.

Kind regards,

Pieter Libin
Working student "Master in Applied Informatics"